in this video we are going to install
blue ocean the video is mainly practical
as we will install an access blue ocean
in particular in the demo part we will
install a blue ocean via manage plugins
access it and switch between a blue
ocean and the classic UI so that you can
use them both while you get familiar
with the blue ocean interface if you
install Jenkins with docker in section 1
you might want to use the docker image
for Jenkins with blue ocean
pre-installed pull it from docker hub at
this URL we will not cover this
installation during the demo without any
further ado let's install the blue ocean
go to Jenkins and click on manage
Jenkins click on manage plugins click
the available tab then go to the filter
box on the top right hand side and start
typing blue ocean these prompts all the
blue ocean plugins but you just need to
select the one name the blue ocean as it
will automatically install all the
dependencies finally select the blue
ocean and click on download now and
install after restart the installation
starts I'm moving forward a bit here at
the end of the installation you will
need to restart Jenkins in order to
apply the changes
after a successful download click on the
Box restart Jenkins when his solution is
complete and no jobs are running this
restarts Jenkins so wait until Jenkins
is back I'm moving forward a bit here
let's go back to the home Jenkins page
and you'll notice a link open blue ocean
on the left side menu click on it and
you are now using Jenkins with the blue
ocean user interface have a look around
by yourself
to familiarize with blue ocean but if
you get stuck and don't know how to
access something by a blue ocean
remember that you can always switch back
to the classic UI by clicking on the
exit icon on the blue oceans navigation
bar bear in mind that some features like
job configuration and admin interface
can only be accessed from the classic UI
for example even if you are in blue
ocean and access the configuration of a
job you will be automatically redirected
to the classic UI this is the end of
this video where we installed blue ocean
watch the next video where we will
create a multi branch pipeline with blue
ocean